Monitoring user workloads feature. (#25)
openshift/managed-openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-assigning-tolerations-to-monitoring-components.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * assemblies/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

[id="assigning-tolerations-to-monitoring-components_{context}"]
= Assigning tolerations to monitoring components

[role="_abstract"]
You can assign tolerations to any of the monitoring stack components to enable moving them to tainted nodes.

.Prerequisites

* *If you are configuring core {product-title} monitoring components*:
** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

> ** You have created the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.

Reviewer: No applicable for OSD/ROSA

Author: Done.

Author: I assume this section of the first step in the procedure also should be removed. I have done so. Please verify.

* *If you are configuring components that monitor user-defined projects*:

> ** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role, or as a user with the `user-workload-monitoring-config-edit` role in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** You have access to the cluster as a user with the `dedicated-admin` role.
```

Author: Done.

> ** You have created the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** You have created the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` namespace.
```

Author: Done.

----

.. Specify `tolerations` for the component:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    <component>:
      tolerations:
        <toleration_specification>
----
+
Substitute `<component>` and `<toleration_specification>` accordingly.
+
For example, `oc adm taint nodes node1 key1=value1:NoSchedule` adds a taint to `node1` with the key `key1` and the value `value1`. This prevents monitoring components from deploying pods on `node1` unless a toleration is configured for that taint. The following example configures the `thanosRuler` component to tolerate the example taint:
+
[source,yaml,subs=quotes]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    thanosRuler:
      tolerations:
      - key: "key1"
        operator: "Equal"
        value: "value1"
        effect: "NoSchedule"
----

. Save the file to apply the changes. The new component placement configuration is applied automatically.
+
[NOTE]
====

> Configurations applied to the `user-workload-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object are not activated unless a cluster administrator has enabled monitoring for user-defined projects.

Reviewer: This is already enabled for OSD/ROSA, so this note is not needed

Author: Removed.
